"""
# Polish Text Stemming Project

This project includes Python scripts for performing morphological analysis and stemming of Polish sentences using the Morfologik library. The purpose of these scripts is to process Polish text by reducing words to their base or stem forms, which can be beneficial for text preprocessing tasks in Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications.

## Project Structure

- `playground.py`: A simple script to demonstrate how to use the Morfologik library to stem individual Polish sentences and remove stopwords if necessary.
- `stem_file.py`: An advanced script that utilizes multiprocessing to stem a large dataset of sentences efficiently, storing the results back into a CSV file.
- `data/test_df.csv`: A dataset containing sample sentences to be stemmed. This file is generated by `create_test_df.py`.
- `create_test_df.py`: A script to generate a test dataset with repeated sentences to demonstrate the stemming process on a larger scale.

## Setup

To run the scripts, you will need Python 3.x installed on your system along with the following Python libraries:
- pyMorfologik
- pandas
- multiprocessing
- requests
- pickle

You can install the necessary libraries using pip:

```bash
pip install pandas requests pyMorfologik
```

## Usage

Before you run the scripts go through each of them and change the directory paths to those in your own machine.

### Generating the Test Dataset

Before running the stemming scripts, generate the initial dataset by executing the `create_test_df.py` script:

```bash
python create_test_df.py
```

This will create a CSV file `data/test_df.csv` with predefined sentences.

### Running the Stemming Scripts

To perform stemming on a simple sentence, run:

```bash
python playground.py
```

This will output the stemmed version of the example sentence included in the script.

For stemming a large dataset using multiprocessing, run:

```bash
python stem_file.py
```

This script reads the sentences from `data/test_df.csv`, processes them in parallel, and saves the stemmed versions back into the same CSV file.

## Understanding the Code

Both scripts use the Morfologik library to perform stemming. `playground.py` processes sentences one at a time, while `stem_fil.py` is designed to handle large volumes of data efficiently using Python's multiprocessing capabilities.

- **playground.py**: This script is a good starting point for understanding how to integrate Morfologik with Python for stemming purposes.
- **stem_file.py**: This script is an example of how to scale the stemming process for larger datasets, which is typical in real-world NLP tasks.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests to enhance the functionalities of the stemming scripts. Adding support for other languages or improving the multiprocessing efficiency are great areas for contribution.
